Port MASTG-TEST-0030 (PendingIntent) to v2 format (#3562)
OWASP/mastg: best-practices/MASTG-BEST-0x01.md

---
title: Use Immutable PendingIntents with Explicit Intents
alias: use-immutable-pendingintents-with-explicit-intents
id: MASTG-BEST-0x01
platform: android
---

When creating a [`PendingIntent`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/app/PendingIntent), always use `FLAG_IMMUTABLE` and ensure the base intent is explicit (targets a specific component).

For background on the `PendingIntent` API and its security model, see @MASTG-KNOW-0024.

## Use FLAG_IMMUTABLE

> Always pass [`PendingIntent.FLAG_IMMUTABLE`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/app/PendingIntent#FLAG_IMMUTABLE) when creating a `PendingIntent`. This prevents a receiving app from modifying the intent's unfilled fields, which could otherwise be used to redirect the intent to a malicious component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Always set [`PendingIntent.FLAG_IMMUTABLE`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/app/PendingIntent#FLAG_IMMUTABLE) when creating a `PendingIntent`. This prevents a receiving app from modifying the intent's unfilled fields, which could otherwise be used to redirect the intent to a malicious component.
```

```kotlin
val pendingIntent = PendingIntent.getActivity(
    context,
    requestCode,
    intent,
    PendingIntent.FLAG_IMMUTABLE  // prevents modification by the receiver
)
```

> `FLAG_IMMUTABLE` is the [default since Android 12 (API level 31)](https://developer.android.com/about/versions/12/behavior-changes-12#pending-intent-mutability), but apps targeting lower API levels must set it explicitly to avoid accidental mutability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`FLAG_IMMUTABLE` [must be always specified](https://developer.android.com/guide/components/intents-filters#DeclareMutabilityPendingIntent "must be always specified") on apps targeting Android 12 or higher for each `PendingIntent` object that the app creates.
```

---

**In the following sources it is specified that:**
- https://developer.android.com/about/versions/12/behavior-changes-12#pending-intent-mutability
> If your app targets Android 12, you must specify the mutability of each PendingIntent object that your app creates. This additional requirement improves your app's security.
- https://developer.android.com/guide/components/intents-filters#DeclareMutabilityPendingIntent
> If your app targets Android 12 or higher, you must specify the mutability of each PendingIntent object that your app creates.

(I think) maybe Copilot made a mistake when writing this section due it mismatch what is written in the Android Documentation.

Reviewer: This was mentioned and fixed in #3751.

> Only use `FLAG_MUTABLE` when the receiving component explicitly needs to fill in intent fields that cannot be known in advance (for example, [inline reply actions](https://developer.android.com/develop/ui/views/notifications/build-notification#reply-action) or [app widget](https://developer.android.com/develop/ui/views/appwidgets) PendingIntents that require a call back into the app). Even then, set only the fields you expect the receiver to modify.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only use `FLAG_MUTABLE` when the receiving component explicitly needs to fill in intent fields that cannot be known in advance (for example, [inline reply actions](https://developer.android.com/develop/ui/views/notifications/build-notification#reply-action) or [app widget](https://developer.android.com/develop/ui/views/appwidgets) [Pending Intents](../Document/0x05h-Testing-Platform-Interaction.md#pending-intents) that require a call back into the app). Even then, set only the fields you expect the receiver to modify.
```
